Our page is taking shape,
let's now add a footer.
We got a header in the navigation bar,
we also want a footer. For that,
you will again find an HTML file attached to this video which contains the code we have to add. We
add it below the main section
but before we close the body and this simply adds the footer element with navigation inside of it
that holds on an unordered list of the links.
The links lead nowhere
but hey, it's only there to build a nice UI.
So we got our footer,
now the goal is to style it and if we have a look at our header, we assigned main header as a class.
Therefore to this footer, I will assign main footer because for the same reason as with the header, we
could use a footer in other places of our app too, so directly targeting the footer is something that would
work in this app but might not work in other apps and we're always safe if we add such a class because
if we ever add another footer element anywhere on our page, we will not use any code we wrote previously
which we then have to refactor,
we simply write code that will not break the future right from the start.
So I added that main footer class and with that in the main.css file,
we can start styling.
I'll now add this below the main header because it's like a general style which we will share across
pages eventually and below the header because it's at the bottom of the page and I will target that
main footer class with that class selector.
Now let's first of all save both files and reload, this is what the footer looks like right now,
we can work on that. And to work on that,
I'll start by adding a background color,
I'll set it to black and a text color of white.
If we do that and reload,
we get the black background,
we get some space around it, so some margin by a child element probably, we can confirm this by inspecting
that and we see the unordered list has a top and bottom margin which due to margin collapsing is merged
with the parent element margin because it's the first and last or the only child in this case
and therefore, we need to work on that margin,
we need to work on that list in general and the white color isn't applied because keep in mind,
the white color is set on that footer here,
the text lives in our anchor tags though.
If we inspect these, they inherit this set up of course
but as you learned many times before, inheritance is overwritten by directly assigned styles and there
is a directly assigned style, this color, the browser default which is in turn then the blue color.
So this is something we have to overwrite explicitly, so setting it here on the main footer element actually
doesn't do anything.
Well, what we can do here though is we can add some padding, maybe 32 pixels and some space to the top,
maybe margin top of let's say 48 pixels
and if you're wondering how I come up with these values, I basically always or often take multiples of
the default font size of the browser which is 16 pixels
but again you will learn more about that in the dimensions and units module of this course where we will
dive deeper into the different values
you can assign,
that's just a side note here.
So margin top, 48 pixels on the main footer,
now I want to select the unordered list in the main footer and for that, we of course can assign classes
there.
We could also use combinators of course and for a practice, that might be worth doing it,
I'll add some classes here though, I'll name this one
here main footer links and then my list item here gets class,
main footer link,
the actual link is the anchor tag but the list item holds that,
so basically it constructs the link
you could say.
And now back to
main.css,
I'll add main footer links which targets the unordered list to set the list style to none and the margin to
zero,
the padding to zero,
we did that multiple times before and also set text align to center because if we save that now and
we reload, we see now the text is still blue but centered in the middle already.
Now let's work on that text color then and on the general look and behavior of these links
and for that I'll target main footer link,
so that's the other class we assigned
and here I'll set it to display
inline block to make sure that the list items on which this class is added are sitting in the same line
and I'll add a margin of zero to top and bottom but I want have some distance between the list items
which are in the same line due to inline block,
so margin left and right could be 16 pixels.
If we save that and reload, then we see they're now in the same line with some space in between.
Last thing is I want to change the look of the text and that's the anchor tag as you learned, so
now let's use main footer link and then the descendant or direct child combinator to select the anchor
tag itself
and there I can set the color to white and the text decoration to none to remove the link
and here's main footer anchor tag hover and main footer anchor tag active and of course I meant main
footer link, though main footer with the descendant operator would have worked too because there only
is one link in the entire footer,
so one set of links I should say and they should get the style
but this is the more precise and performant way of selecting these
and now we can set some styles for when we hover over these links, maybe a light grey,
#ccc gives us such a light grey look.
Let's try it out, let's reload, yes there's a slight change if we hover over them and that's a nice looking
footer in my opinion
and with that, the first version of our starting page is done.
Now let's analyze what we did and what we can do as a next step thereafter.